FXHW60 PHFO 031328
AFDHFO

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Honolulu HI
328 AM HST Sat Oct 3 2026

.SYNOPSIS...

A drier air mass with lower humidity, sunny skies and light to 
moderate winds expected through Sunday. Isolated showers possible
windward and mauka spots. Winds should decrease early next week 
allowing land and sea breezes to develop.

&&

.DISCUSSION...

Looking at satellite and radar imagery this morning, isolated
showers are ongoing along windward and mauka spots across the
state. High pressure is expected to build back over the state
dropping humidity levels and ushering in sunny skies through
Sunday. 

Early next week, trades will weaken in response to an approaching
surface trough and then will weaken further heading into midweek 
as broad troughing develops northwest of the state. In this 
lighter flow, land and sea breezes will develop with clearing 
expected overnight and clouds and a few showers over leeward and 
interior areas each afternoon. 


&&

.AVIATION...

The high pressure ridge will build back over the Hawaii region 
with drier easterly trade wind weather returning just in time for 
the weekend. Lower humidity levels and mostly sunny skies will 
prevail through Sunday.

No AIRMETs in effect.

&&

.MARINE...

Gentle to fresh east to northeast trade winds fill back in today
as Hurricane Nolo accelerates westward away from the Hawaiian
Islands and high pressure strengthens gradually to the north. A 
Small Craft Advisory has been issued, in effect beginning tonight,
when locally strong trades are forecast to develop for the 
typically windy waters and channels. Locally strong trades may 
persist into early next week before high pressure to the north
weakens again and winds start to diminish. By the middle of next 
week, troughing developing northwest of the islands may cause 
winds to veer out of the southeast once again.

A small background south swell will surf mostly steady along south 
facing shores through the weekend. A new small, long-period south 
swell, originating from a large fetch of gale force winds southeast of
New Zealand earlier this week, is forecast to arrive beginning Sunday
and peak Monday through Wednesday. This will push surf to slightly 
above seasonal averages for the first half of next week.

A small bump in surf along north-facing shores will decrease today as
a small, short period north swell fades. Another small bump in north 
shore surf is possible early next week as a small, medium-period 
northwest swell arrives late Sunday and peaks on Monday. This will be
followed by a slightly larger long-period northwest swell peaking on 
Wednesday, giving a good boost to north shore surf for mid-week. Surf
along east facing shores will increase and become more choppy through
tonight as easterly trades build back into the region.

&&

.FIRE WEATHER...

Drier air is expected over the weekend as light to moderate  
east- northeasterly trades return. Winds are expected to decrease
early to midweek. Isolated showers will favor windward and mauka 
areas overnight into the early morning hours. Fire weather 
conditions will remain below critical threshold this week for both
wind and humidity levels. Temperature inversion heights are around
5000-7000ft.

&&

.HFO WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
Small Craft Advisory from 6 PM this evening to 6 PM HST Sunday 
for Maalaea Bay-Pailolo Channel-Alenuihaha Channel-Big Island 
Leeward Waters-Big Island Southeast Waters.

&&

$$


DISCUSSION...Walsh
AVIATION...Bohlin
MARINE...Quesada
FIRE WEATHER...Walsh


