5 PM HST Friday 25 September (0300 UTC Saturday 26 September) 2026

The atmosphere near the Big Island will remain saturated and unstable, allowing extensive fog, high humidity and/or rain to plague the summit probably through most of Saturday night. There is also a possibility for convection developing in the area and periods of heavy rain at the summit mainly through sunrise tomorrow. There is a reasonably good chance that the moisture and instability will begin to slide out of the area, allowing the inversion to rebuild near 7-8 thousand feet by Sunday afternoon, significantly decreasing the risk for fog/rain at the summit for the following 2 nights. However, there is a chance that moisture could return to the summit and breakdown the inversion again through Tuesday night. Extensive daytime clouds are expected for tomorrow then should taper for Sunday and especially Monday, only to pick up again on Tuesday and Wednesday. Thick widespread clouds will continue to build in from the south, contributing to overcast skies probably into early Saturday evening. These clouds will shift off toward the SW through Saturday night, but could still be visible from the summit probably through Monday night. There is also a possibility that a narrow band of thick clouds will build back in from the SW through Tuesday night. Precipitable water is expected to exceed 4 mm through at least Saturday night, but could settle in near 1 mm for the following 2 nights, only to rebound back to 4 mm through Tuesday night. A saturated/unstable air mass, combined with bouts of boundary layer turbulence will contribute to bad seeing probably through Saturday night. There is a very good chance that drier more stable and calmer air mass will fill in overhead, which combined with lighter deep easterly flow at and above the summit will allow seeing to settle in near 0.45-0.55 arcseconds for Sunday and especially Monday night (minor dynamic turbulence is possible for early Sunday evening). Another potential influx of moisture may degrade seeing again mainly during the second half of Tuesday night. No change since the morning forecast...Hurricane Nolo will continue to intensify and drift northward into early this evening, falling just short of the Big Island, then will wobble off toward WSW before switching off to the north (passing west of Kauai) early next week. Nevertheless, the widespread/deep moisture and instability surrounding TS/Hurricance Nolo will continue to engulf the Big Island, resulting in inoperable summit conditions and cloudy skies likely through Saturday night. There is also a possibility for periods of heavy rain at the summit as well as deep convection developing in the area, mainly along the eastern slopes of the Big Island during this time, particularly between this afternoon and sunrise Saturday. Deep easterly trades, combined with orographic enhancment and a tight wind gradient along the northern flank of Nolo could combine to push summit gusts to 60-75 mph mainly for this evening. There is a possibility that conditions will begin to improve as Nolo slides off toward the SW as the weekend progresses. However, it should be noted that a band of deep moisture/clouds may still persist ~25 KM just SW of the Big Island and could easily slide further northward with subtle changes/variations in Nolo's trajectory/intensity. Further the level of uncertainty in the trajectory and intensity of Nolo increases with time. Regardless, look for inoperable summit conditions/skies probably through midnight Saturday, with a potential for a rather dramtic improvement over the following 2 nights. Long-term projections suggest that a band trailing Nolo during its northward departure may move through the Big Island and bring moisture back to the summit through Tuesday night. This coudl result in another erosion of the inversion and increase the risk mainly for fog/high humidity at the summit as that night progresses.